# asmMD
A set of functions for molecular dynamics built in x86-64



## Details

### Calling Convention
Functions follow Microsoft `_stdcall` calling conventions. All arguments are passed via stack; callee cleans up the arguments. In general, caller provides the memory for coordinates and forces; all memory allocated by functions in `asmMD` are freed upon returning.

### Register Clobbers
Preserves all registers other than `rax` (standard and XMM), but certainly don't rely on it!!



## Versions and Fixes
Two versions are currently available.

`asmMD` - version 1.

`asmMD_rev2` - revision 2. Explicitly raises CPU floating-point exception when the particle's box coordinate cannot fit inside a 32-bit signed integer.



## How to Use


### Windows

#### C/C++
Copy `asmMD.dll`, `asmMD.lib`, and `asmMD.h` files to your project directory. In your project configurations, add the path of the directory `asmMD.h` to the additional includes list. In the linker settings, add the path of the directory containing `asmMD.lib` to additional library directories list, and `asmMD.lib` to additional dependencies under input settings. Finally, when running your built program, make sure that the library `asmMD.dll` itself is in the same directory.


### Linux
Not currently supported because this version uses `kernel32`'s `GlobalAlloc()` and `GlobalFree()`, which is obviously only applicable to Windows! TODO: Switch memory allocation to `malloc()` and `free()` as part of Linux's C standard library.


### Platform-Independent

#### Python
Import the library with `ctypes`; for example, using `asmMD = ctypes.DLL("C:\\path\\to\\DLL\\asmMD.dll")`. Then just use the functions within as usual, making sure that Python datatypes passed are compatible with the function signature in `asmMD.h`. For instance, to initialize a 3D box, use the following:

```python
import ctypes
asmMD = ctypes.DLL("C:\\path\\to\\DLL\\asmMD.dll")

nPart = 1000
density = (ctypes.c_double * 1)(0.9)
L = (ctypes.c_double * 1)()
coords = (ctypes.c_double * 4 * nPart)()
asmMD.init3DGrid(nPart, density, L, coords)
```

The length of the box (which is determined by the number of particles and density) will be returned in `L` (in Python, access this using `L[0]`). The coordinates, likewise, will be returned in `coords`. So, the x-coordinate of the 100th particle is accessed with `coords[99][0]`. Note that the coordinate grid should have size _four_ times the number of particles, even though theoretically, only three coordinates per particle are required. This is for computational efficiency.



## Numerical Uncertainty
All functions follow the IEEE-754 standard for 64-bit doubles. The machine epsilon (relative error ratio bound) for this representation is `2.2E-16`. However, with multiple successive floating point operations, this error accumulates; in the worst case, at a rate of the machine epsilon per FLOP.



## Known Issues
Running with very large timesteps or with unphysical values will almost certainly result in memory access violation errors caused by floating point calculations. For instance, taking `dt = 1.0` in `LJstep` will result in very large particle displacements, and the ensuing call to `pbc3d` may produce a value too large to be stored as a 32-bit signed integer. In this case, particles may be left outside of the box at incorrect positions, and following calls to `LJforceEval` or `LJenergyEval` will fail.

In `rev2`, a SIMD floating-point exception will be generated by the processor when a particle's position is too far from the initial box. This exception may be handled by the calling code.
